
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# `troopdata`: Tools for Analyzing Cross-National Military Deployment and Basing Data

<!-- badges: start -->

[![](https://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/troopdata?color=blue)](https://cran.r-project.org/package=troopdata)
[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/devel%20version-0.1.4-green.svg)](https://github.com/meflynn/troopdata)
[![](http://cranlogs.r-pkg.org/badges/grand-total/troopdata?color=orange)](https://cran.r-project.org/package=troopdata)
[![](http://cranlogs.r-pkg.org/badges/last-month/troopdata?color=red)](https://cran.r-project.org/package=troopdata)
[![](http://cranlogs.r-pkg.org/badges/last-week/troopdata?color=yellow)](https://cran.r-project.org/package=troopdata)
<!-- badges: end -->

<img src="man/figures/logo.png" alt="troopdata hex logo" align="right" width="200" style="padding: 0 15px; float: right;"/>

The goal of the `{troopdata}` package is to facilitate the distribution
of military deployment and basing data for use in social science
research and journalism. The troop deployment data were initially
compiled by Tim Kane using information obtained from the U.S. Department
of Defense’s Defense Manpower Data Center (DMDC). The original data
ended in 2005 and we have updated it to run through 2020. Similarly, the
basing data were initially compiled by David Vine, and we have updated
the original data using open source information from the U.S. military
and press reports through 2018. We have also assembled this R package to
allow users to more easily access the data and use it in their own
research.

The package will be updated with additional features in the future, but
for now please let me know if you find any errors.

Please refer to the bottom of this page for citation information.

You can also find more information on the package and changes
corresponding to each update here:
<https://meflynn.github.io/troopdata/index.html>

## Installation

You can install the `troopdata` package from CRAN or
[GitHub](https://github.com/) with:

``` r
#install.packages("devtools")

install.packages("troopdata")

or 

devtools::install_github("meflynn/troopdata")
```

## Use

This package currently has two functions:

`get_troopdata()`: Returns a data frame containing country-year U.S.
military deployment values. Depending on the arguments specified, either
total troop deployments, or total deployments plus service
branch-specific deployment values, are returned.

`get_basedata()`: Returns a data frame containing information on U.S.
military bases around the globe from the Cold War forward. Depending on
the arguments specified the function will return the entire data set or
data for a particular country. Observations can be site-specific or can
be aggregated to generate country counts.

`get_builddata()`: Returns a data frame containing geocoded
location-year information on U.S. military overseas construction
spending. Users can specify select countries and years, or call the
entire data frame. Currently only select countries are included in the
data

## Examples

You can find more detailed vignettes on these functions below:

1.  [`get_troopdata`](https://meflynn.github.io/troopdata/articles/troopdata-vignette.html)
2.  [`get_basedata`](https://meflynn.github.io/troopdata/articles/basedata-vignette.html)
3.  [`get_builddata`](https://meflynn.github.io/troopdata/articles/builddata-vignette.html)

## A note on country codes

The original DMDC data contain information on U.S. troop deployments to
a a wide range of locations, including several non-state territories.
One downside of using the COW country codes as the primary host ID
variable is that there are often no country codes for smaller states and
territories. In the case of the Vine basing data, some smaller
territories have COW codes for the imperial power that controls a
territory. For example, Puerto Rico and Guam both receive a COW country
code of 2 as they are territorial possessions of the United States.
Users may want to distinguish such cases where deployments are present
in a territory versus the metropole. Using the ISO country codes
provides some additional flexibility when calling the data. Worst case,
you can pull the full data frame and look around at the specific
observations and figure out what best suits your needs.

## How to cite this package and data?

When using the updated troop deployment data and/or the `troopdata`
package please cite the following:

-   Allen, Michael A., Michael E. Flynn, and Carla Martinez
    Machain. 2021. “Global U.S. military deployment data: 1950-2020.”
    Conflict Management and Peace Science. TBD.

Kane’s original troop deployment data collected from 1950-2005:

-   Kane, Tim. 2005. “Global U.S. troop deployment, 1950-2003.”
    Technical Report. Heritage Foundation, Washington, D.C.

Vine’s original basing data:

-   Vine, David. 2015. “Base nation: How U.S. military bases abroad harm
    America and the World.” Metropolitan Books, Washington, D.C.

Construction data

-   Michael A. Allen, Michael E. Flynn, and Carla Martinez
    Machain. 2020. “Outside the wire: US military deployments and public
    opinion in host states.” American Political Science Review. 114(2):
    326-341.
